[MUSIC PLAYING]
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
Good morning and welcome, everyone.
This is one of the very glorious and beautiful day
of the Buddhist history.
Certainly, it's for us one of the great moment in our life.
We are celebrating the very special significance
of the event that marks one of the beautiful history
in the Buddhist history in this holy land of the Saranath,
or the way the Buddha forced to give the will of Dharma,
or the turning of the will of Dharma.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
This nunnery is very important.
We really thought that because in the holy land,
such is the holy land, there is no nunneries in history
that we can read happened.
The first nunnery in Saranath in the history after 2,550th
[INAUDIBLE]
First nunnery.
You are very lucky.
You are very nice.
We are very happy.
No, first nunnery.
There hasn't been a nunnery here since the time of the Buddha.
At least documented that there was a community of female
practitioners here.
So Rumpushets have dedicated this to the continued learning
of teachings for the female communities
that they receive and hold the teachings
and bring them to maturity, both in the practice, meditation,
and study, the three aspects, three pillars of Buddhism.
In the according to the Buddha's teaching,
the nunnery started in the Sharvasta,
but nothing really mentioned in this holy land.
There's a lot of monasteries mentioned, but nothing nunnery.
So we thought that we can start some nunnery.
It will be really wonderful.
And Sunday is the day of our opening nunnery.
It will be very--
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
Many of the peoples are coming to our openings.
Women's lineage in Tibetan Buddhism
is really, really important.
Most of them, I know, most realized
teachers will be doing practices with female deities.
Just it's very integrated and very important.
And that was the basis for wanting to, or aspiring to,
because we didn't know that it would be possible.
But we aspire to bring women into the arena
and to carry the lineage forward.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
Now we have a board at nuns.
My name is Sandy.
I am from Nepal.
I am 11 years old.
I'm Bema Weasel.
I'm from Nepal.
I'm 16 years old.
I am Tasi Yankton.
I am from Sikkim.
I'm Chiki.
I'm 20 years old.
I'm from Bhutan.
My name is Dhoma Chiki.
I'm from Nepal.
I'm a Hindu.
I am 20 years old.
I'm from Nepal.
And they all, generally, they're all interested.
They become-- they need nuns.
My mission is to become a nun.
By being a nun, I want to retreat a lot.
And I want to study more about the philosophy
and as well as the Tibetan grammars,
because in Bhutan, there is no Tibetan grammars
and much philosophies.
And if we do a dharma or more dharma in this life,
in this life, we'll be peace, peace.
And it is easy to be a happy life.
I like a nun's life.
I request to my mum.
I want to be a nun because of the dharma.
The Bhutan is about your own path, your inner self.
And they're reaching down to the depths of understanding
in early life about the world.
And they've chosen to be students of the Bhutan,
the Buddhist teachings, Buddhist doctrines, which are so inspiring
and so just take it to a new place and make you whole.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
Being a nun, I want to help all the given beings
as well as to teach whatever I move to the other people.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
There are so many great teachers in India,
those Buddhist great women teachers,
both in the Vinaya systems and as well as the Mahayana
and the Vaidhyana and particularly Vaidhyana.
There are so many women great teachers.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
If I can do, I want to become the Ani Kimbo.
[LAUGHTER]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You are really excited.
I'm very happy.
We are going to celebrate.
And the day after-- oh, no.
I think 12, Sunday, coming soon.
So everyone is so much excited and happy
and also energetic, monks and nuns.
Everyone is really working hard now,
trying to prepare all these things.
This is one of the beautiful nuns here.
This is another one.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
Put all the prayer flags up so that it's very festive,
but also has the emblem of the horse with the energy horse.
We call raising up the wind horse.
And it has all the prayers for revitalizing and bringing
all the energies together.
That's representing all the colored energies.
This is very powerful.
I like a one nun.
Her name is Lauren.
I like very much because she's very kind-hearted to us.
Also, she is helping our [INAUDIBLE]
to build a new nanari.
They worked all night last night to finish
and to do some of the finishing touching.
We've got some palm trees coming this afternoon.
And we're going to sort of be in the backdrop of all these work
as we'll have completed it so it looks a little more comfortable.
Things go, they're on pace here.
There are no great machinery.
Bricks and everything is done by hand.
I think there has been only one machine here,
and it's a polishing machine.
Otherwise, everything has been done by hand.
It's just an extraordinary feat to do this.
I think the building started a year ago.
So we could say that it's 95% finished.
Wow, they're really doing so well.
It's a group to get the paintings so well.
This is the symbol of the Buddha teaching.
The Buddha teaching is called the Dharma Wheel.
Dharma Wheel symbolizes all the Buddha's teachings,
like the wheel, meditation, and achievement.
And then to do symbolize the teaching of the Buddha
is nonviolence and peace.
This teaching is equal for all the living beings
to bring them peace and happiness.
They're equal.
There's no difference between any living beings.
We all have the same Buddha nature.
We all like the peace and harmony and nonviolence.
So therefore, even the deers and animals
also come to listen to such a peaceful teaching.
And so that's what they symbolize.
But they're using that reference of books on how to bend.
But they're doing really well.
And we like to be really completed as much as we can,
before the 12th of November.
So it looks more clean and beautiful
so that we can really feel happy and joy
and dedicate the merit.
Merit for the world peace, for all the individualists,
to everyone for the good cause.
Tomorrow is then a really full day
with the spiritual Dharma activities.
And we're really also going to dedicate these merits
for all the living beings, to all the support
and donors.
And then we wish really to everyone, those who are here
and those who are gone from our side.
And every best and every good things
happened and then reaching enlightenment in the Buddhahood.
That's what really we are praying and we are hoping.
And that's what we're trying to symbolize
by every other event and activities.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
Today we're celebrating the opening of the first nunnery
in Sarnath since the time we opened up.
There is no accounts of any nunneries at all.
We're talking about 2,550 years ago now.
[APPLAUSE]
Look at this Buddha, Buddha, please.
Buddha is very arrived here.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
[APPLAUSE]
Good morning and welcome everyone.
This is one of the very glorious and beautiful day
of the Buddhist history.
Certainly is for us one of the great moment in our life.
And do meditation practice, do meditation activities.
If you do that, you will get equal benefit
as Buddha himself, living, benefit.
Because of those old reasons, many great devotees
of the old from the high to the beginner practitioners
visited those holy spotters and many of those praises
and remembered and meditated and practiced
and bring more love and kindness and comparative thought
in their mind and heart and spread it
and share that nature to the other beings and others.
And that's how the Buddhism become the symbol of love
and peace of this universe and world.
Again, from the day one, the Buddhist nun, Ani Lorraine,
the [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
who put so much effort to bring--
actualizing to bring this land.
And until now, so we'd like to thank to all the donors
and all the supporters of everyone
and then particularly the [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
and the [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
and then Ani, [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
and Lorraine.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'm so happy and peaceful.
I like a nun's life because of the Dharma.
So I also meet very kind and very kind-hearted [INAUDIBLE]
and Ani Lorraine.
They are helping so much.
And also, they are--
also, they are very kind for us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Also, I understand, like, many of you
are going to sponsor the candles.
Like, they're marking the years of the Buddha's sake.
Like, in our birthday, 2,550 years.
But this time, we're not going to blow up.
We're going to continue to live.
And then, actually, let it go.
[LAUGHS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
We like our nunneries should be very big and very famous.
All that we are providing--
and that, actually, is not just we are providing.
It's all like members of the Vyamassamabuddhi Center
and proper really donated that.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
We want a very big, big sharing room.
Also, library-- also, we want many nuns.
Many nuns, and we have a class of philosophy English
or something.
Also, we want internet or internet.
In Tibet, we have seen that the eye medicine is always
used for the eye.
Eye sounds.
That's why, really, we are doing that.
So any support and any contributions
that can help for this purpose, we really
will use that for the right directions
and will propel their contribution in the right way.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
As the Buddha gave the first teaching here,
and that teaching spread throughout the world
and throughout the generations.
And hopefully, as we start this small nunneries,
continue to spread the value and the call and the teaching
and the messages of the Buddha by those great female masterals
continually and throughout the world
and throughout the generations.
So that is really our wish and prayer.
And as we said, too, first time in the Buddha
gave the first teaching, only five human students, only five.
And we have eight nuns now that couldn't exist.
And maybe more is coming.
So hopefully, it will really continue
igniting, like grass fire.
And then big continue running as a Mississippi River
or River Ganges, ongoing, unseasoned,
spreading the really message of the teaching of the Buddha.
Well, everybody's so happy and they're inspired now
that some new nuns are coming, the family is growing.